---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---

---
title: "Comparison of tree-based models performance in prediction of marketing campaign results using Explainable Artificial Intelligence tools"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/master-thesis
excerpt: 'Master thesis on different explainable techniques'
date: 2020-10-01
venue: 'Master thesis'
citation: 'Osika, Z; Chlebus, M. (2020). &quot;Comparison of tree-based models performance in prediction of marketing campaign results using Explainable Artificial Intelligence tools.&quot; <i>Master Thesis</i>.'
---
Master thesis

[Read the paper here](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Marcin-Chlebus/publication/341914621_COMPARISON_OF_TREE-BASED_MODELS_PERFORMANCE_IN_PREDICTION_OF_MARKETING_CAMPAIGN_RESULTS_USING_EXPLAINABLE_ARTIFICIAL_INTELLIGENCE_TOOLS_MARCIN_CHLEBUS_ZUZANNA_OSIKA_UNIVERSITY_OF_WARSAW_FACULTY_OF_ECO/links/5ed95c3492851c9c5e815902/COMPARISON-OF-TREE-BASED-MODELS-PERFORMANCE-IN-PREDICTION-OF-MARKETING-CAMPAIGN-RESULTS-USING-EXPLAINABLE-ARTIFICIAL-INTELLIGENCE-TOOLS-MARCIN-CHLEBUS-ZUZANNA-OSIKA-UNIVERSITY-OF-WARSAW-FACULTY-OF-ECO.pdf)

---
title: "What Lies beyond the Pareto Front? A Survey on Decision-Support Methods for Multi-Objective Optimization"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/pp
excerpt: 'Literature Review of decision support methods to explore the Pareto front in multi-objective decision making'
date: 2023-12-01
venue: 'International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Macau 2023'
citation: 'Osika, Z., Zatarain Salazar, J., Roijers, D. M., Oliehoek, F. A., & Murukannaiah, P. K. (2023). What Lies beyond the Pareto Front? A Survey on Decision-Support Methods for Multi-Objective Optimization. In E. Elkind (Ed.), Proceedings of the Thirty-Second International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI-23 (pp. 6741–6749). International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence Organization.'
---
We present a review that unifies decision-support methods for exploring the solutions produced by multi-objective optimization (MOO) algorithms. As MOO is applied to solve diverse problems, approaches for analyzing the trade-offs offered by MOO algorithms are scattered across fields. We provide an overview of the advances on this topic, including methods for visualization, mining the solution set, and uncertainty exploration as well as emerging research directions, including interactivity, explainability, and ethics. We synthesize these methods drawing from different fields of research to build a unified approach, independent of the application. Our goals are to reduce the entry barrier for researchers and practitioners on using MOO algorithms and to provide novel research directions.

[Read the paper here](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2023/0755.pdf)

---
title: "Navigating Trade-offs: Policy Summarization for Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/bb
excerpt: 'Bi-Objective Clustering Algorithm for Summarizing MORL's Outputs'
date: 2023-12-01
venue: 'Frontiers in Artifical Intelligence and Applications, Volume 392: ECAI 2024'
citation: 'Osika, Z., Zatarain Salazar, J., Oliehoek, F. A., & Murukannaiah, P. K. (2024). Navigating Trade-offs: Policy Summarization for Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning. In Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications, 392: ECAI 2024 (pp. 2919–2926).'
---
Multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL) is used to solve problems involving multiple objectives. An MORL agent must make decisions based on the diverse signals provided by distinct reward functions. Training an MORL agent yields a set of solutions (policies), each presenting distinct trade-offs among the objectives (expected returns). MORL enhances explainability by enabling fine-grained comparisons of policies in the solution set based on their trade-offs as opposed to having a single policy. However, the solution set is typically large and multi-dimensional, where each policy (e.g., a neural network) is represented by its objective values.

We propose an approach for clustering the solution set generated by MORL. By considering both policy behavior and objective values, our clustering method can reveal the relationship between policy behaviors and regions in the objective space. This approach can enable decision makers (DMs) to identify overarching trends and insights in the solution set rather than examining each policy individually. We tested our method in four multi-objective environments and found it outperformed traditional k-medoids clustering. Additionally, we include a case study that demonstrates its real-world application.

[Read the paper here](https://dx.doi.org/10.3233/FAIA240830v)

